1. Reactive systems 
E.g. thermometer, messaging apps, this google docs system
Could be deadline dependant, especially if the system is exposed to higher risks
Continuous interaction with the outside world, real-time data acquisition, event trigger response
Implemented via loops (for, while)
The steady-state behavior of the system does not terminate (except under the condition of a fatal error)
  Responds to interrupts
2. Real-time systems 
Hard Real-Time systems have heavier consequences than sof real-time systems
Continuous: Required input/output is predetermined, basically an equation solver
Discrete: Transforms the input into a more desirable output, i.e. transforms the input from one state to another; e.g. accumulator; Can be casual and non-casual
Works with deadlines, worst-case execution time is necessary to know beforehand 
Hybrid Systems: a combination of Continuous and Discrete systems
RTOS: An operating system that guarantees a certain capability within a specified time constraint, usually a preemptive scheduling system
3. Continuous/discrete/hybrid systems 
In a continuous system the variables change continuously over time, e.g. the speed of a vehicle, the data can be described by a differential equation
In a discrete system the variables change at specific points in time, e.g. a state machine
Hybrid systems have characteristics of both continuous and discrete systems 
4. Embedded systems 
An embedded system is a microprocessor-based computer hardware system with software that is designed to perform a dedicated function, either as an independent system or as a part of a large system. At the core is an integrated circuit designed to carry out computation for real-time operations.
E.g electronic calculators, GPS systems, fitness trackers.

5. Dependable systems 
Systems that must be reliable, available, safe and secure at any point they are needed/used.
Reflects the user’s trust in that system. Therefore reflects the user`s confidence that would not operate witn no fail in normal use.
E.g. Aeroplanes, air traffic control

6. Distributed systems
Collection of autonomous computers connected using a communication network.
E.g: Telephone, Emails, Electronic Banking, Sensor Networking
The system requires Concurrent Components, a communication network and a synchronization mechanism.
Is a field of computer science that studies distributed systems and the computer program that runs in a distributed system is called a distributed program.


Dependable system attributes:

Reliability: is the probability of a component, or
system, functioning correctly over a given period of
time under a given set of operating conditions.

Availability: is the probability that the system will be functioning correctly at any given time.

Safety
Security
